Name three things that an OS is responsible for

1.) An OS is responsible for creating new processes. Processes are another way to describe running applications or programs. While this ability is solely executable by the OS, the OS also listens for commands from currently running processes to execute a new application, determines if it is able to run the application, and then if so, run the application. This may appear as though processes have the ability to spin up other processes, but it is purely the OS's responsibility to do so. 

2.) The OS has access to the hardware of the computer. While this also relates to executing processes (as a thread on the CPU is a piece of hardware), this ability also governs other hardware such as the computers monitor, keyboard, and mouse. These important pieces of hardware, which provide much of the human control over the computer, are strictly regulated by the OS. Again, while certain processes seem to affect how these pieces of hardware work, they are functioning with the permission of the OS.

3.) The fact that the OS has access to the hardware also means that it is the gatekeeper to the computers memory cache, both in long term memory and RAM. The system call malloc() for example makes a request to the OS, which runs in Kernel mode (the privileged set of processes which have access to the computers hardware) in order to dynamically allocate memory on the heap. This is an example of how we, in user mode, can solicit system operations from the OS in order to enact behind the scenes memory management. Without the OS, operations like these would be either inaccessible to us, or much more complicated in the types of commmands we would have to issue. 